README.md, before:

# jb-calendar

pure js jalali calendar interface web component
sample:  <https://codepen.io/javadbat/pen/poRKYEY>

 - support jalali date as well as gregorian date
 - customizable theme with css variable so you can implement dark mode too
 - support typescript
## installation

```bash
npm install jb-calendar
```

## usage

```html
    <jb-calendar></jb-calendar>
```

in frameworks for example React:

```jsx
import 'jb-calendar'
function myHOC(){
    return(
        <jb-calendar></jb-calendar>   
    )
}
```

### select value

```js
    document.querySelector('jb-calendar').select(year,month,day);
    // for example:
    document.querySelector('jb-calendar').select(1399,8,24);
```

you can write wrapper for it in any js framework you use and it will compatible with react, vue, angular, ...

## dependancy

we use `date-fns` and `date-fns-jalali` to manege calendar jalali data

## events

```js
//when defualt property are defined best time for impl your config like min and max date
document.querySelector('jb-calendar').addEventListener('init',this.onCalendarElementInitiated);

//when calendar init all property and function and dom created and bind successully
document.querySelector('jb-calendar').addEventListener('load',this.onCalendarElementLoaded);

//when user select a selectable day on calendar
document.querySelector('jb-calendar').addEventListener('select',this.onDaySelected);
```

## Jalali and Gregorian Date input

in jb-calendar you can set date input type to be jalali or gregorian and change it whenever you want by simple set `dateInput` to `JALALI` or `GREGORIAN`.

```js
    document.querySelector('jb-calendar').dateInput = `GREGORIAN`;
```
## set default selected day and month

you can say which date is shown by default in component when loaded like this: 

```javascript
document.querySelector('jb-calendar').defaultCalendarData = {
            gregorian:{
                year: 2022,
                month:1,
            },
            jalali:{
                year:1400,
                month:1,
            }
        };
```
if you not set this the default will be today year and month

## persian number

you can set `usePersianNumber` so calendar number format change to persian number char for example in year instead of `1400` you will see `۱۴۰۰`.

```javascript

document.querySelector('jb-calendar').usePersianNumber = true;

```
## attribute

<!-- ### other attribute

| atribute name  | description                                                                                                         |
| -------------  | -------------                                                                                                       |
| direction      | make component placing order to rtl  `<jb-calendar direction="rtl"></jb-calendar>`      | -->

### set custome style

in some cases in your project you need to change defualt style of web-component for example you need different color or different border-radius and etc.    
if you want to set a custom style to this web-component all you need is to set css variable in parent scope of web-component

| css variable name                        | description                                                                                   |
| -------------                            | -------------                                                                                 |
| --jb-calendar-color                      | general text color of component                                                               |
| --jb-calendar-arrow-button-bgcolor       | background color of next and prev button                                                      |
| --jb-calendar-arrow-button-border-radius | border rauis of arrow buttons default is 12px                                                 | 
| --jb-calendar-day-text-color             | day text color                                                                                |
| --jb-calendar-day-text-color-disabled    | day text color when day in not available for select                                           |
| --jb-calendar-day-text-color-today       | today day text color                                                                          |
| --jb-calendar-day-bgcolor-selected       | selected day background color                                                                 |
| --jb-calendar-day-bgcolor-selected-hover | selected day background color on hover                                                        |
| --jb-calendar-day-bgcolor-hover          | day background color on hover                                                                 |
| --jb-calendar-status-point-bgcolor-today | backgrround color of small cirle under today text                                             |
| --jb-calendar-status-point-border-color  | border color of status point                                                                  |
| --jb-calendar-month-bgcolor-hover        | background color of month in month list in hover state                                        |
| --jb-calendar-year-bgcolor-hover         | background color of year in month list in hover state                                         |
| --jb-calendar-arrow-fill-color           | next and prev arrow icon color                                                                |
| --jb-calendar-day-color-hover            | day color hover default color is `#312d2d`                                                    |
| --jb-calendar-month-color-hover          | day color hover default color is `#312d2d`                                                    |
| --jb-calendar-year-color-hover           | day color hover default color is `#312d2d`                                                    |

Commit message:

feat: add custom month name set method

README.md, after:

# jb-calendar

pure js jalali calendar interface web component
sample:  <https://codepen.io/javadbat/pen/poRKYEY>

 - support jalali date as well as gregorian date
 - customizable theme with css variable so you can implement dark mode too
 - support typescript
## installation

```bash
npm install jb-calendar
```

## usage

```html
    <jb-calendar></jb-calendar>
```

in frameworks for example React:

```jsx
import 'jb-calendar'
function myHOC(){
    return(
        <jb-calendar></jb-calendar>   
    )
}
```

### select value

```js
    document.querySelector('jb-calendar').select(year,month,day);
    // for example:
    document.querySelector('jb-calendar').select(1399,8,24);
```

you can write wrapper for it in any js framework you use and it will compatible with react, vue, angular, ...

## dependancy

we use `date-fns` and `date-fns-jalali` to manege calendar jalali data

## events

```js
//when defualt property are defined best time for impl your config like min and max date
document.querySelector('jb-calendar').addEventListener('init',this.onCalendarElementInitiated);

//when calendar init all property and function and dom created and bind successully
document.querySelector('jb-calendar').addEventListener('load',this.onCalendarElementLoaded);

//when user select a selectable day on calendar
document.querySelector('jb-calendar').addEventListener('select',this.onDaySelected);
```

## Jalali and Gregorian Date input

in jb-calendar you can set date input type to be jalali or gregorian and change it whenever you want by simple set `dateInput` to `JALALI` or `GREGORIAN`.

```js
    document.querySelector('jb-calendar').dateInput = `GREGORIAN`;
```
## set default selected day and month

you can say which date is shown by default in component when loaded like this: 

```javascript
document.querySelector('jb-calendar').defaultCalendarData = {
            gregorian:{
                year: 2022,
                month:1,
            },
            jalali:{
                year:1400,
                month:1,
            }
        };
```
if you not set this the default will be today year and month

## persian number

you can set `usePersianNumber` so calendar number format change to persian number char for example in year instead of `1400` you will see `۱۴۰۰`.

```javascript

document.querySelector('jb-calendar').usePersianNumber = true;

```
## Change Month List
you may want to change the default month list for both  of Jalali and Gregorian calendars base on your country month labels. here how you can do it:
```js
document.querySelector('jb-calendar').setMonthList('JALALI',['حَمَل','ثَور','جَوزا','سَرَطان','اَسَد','سُنبُله','میزان','عَقرَب','قَوس','جَدْی','دَلو','حوت']);
document.querySelector('jb-calendar').setMonthList('GREGORIAN',['1','2','3','4','5','6','7','8','9','10','11','12']);
```

## attribute

<!-- ### other attribute

| atribute name  | description                                                                                                         |
| -------------  | -------------                                                                                                       |
| direction      | make component placing order to rtl  `<jb-calendar direction="rtl"></jb-calendar>`      | -->

### set custome style

in some cases in your project you need to change default style of web-component for example you need different color or different border-radius and etc.    
if you want to set a custom style to this web-component all you need is to set css variable in parent scope of web-component

| css variable name                        | description                                                                                   |
| -------------                            | -------------                                                                                 |
| --jb-calendar-color                      | general text color of component                                                               |
| --jb-calendar-arrow-button-bgcolor       | background color of next and prev button                                                      |
| --jb-calendar-arrow-button-border-radius | border rauis of arrow buttons default is 12px                                                 | 
| --jb-calendar-day-text-color             | day text color                                                                                |
| --jb-calendar-day-text-color-disabled    | day text color when day in not available for select                                           |
| --jb-calendar-day-text-color-today       | today day text color                                                                          |
| --jb-calendar-day-bgcolor-selected       | selected day background color                                                                 |
| --jb-calendar-day-bgcolor-selected-hover | selected day background color on hover                                                        |
| --jb-calendar-day-bgcolor-hover          | day background color on hover                                                                 |
| --jb-calendar-status-point-bgcolor-today | backgrround color of small cirle under today text                                             |
| --jb-calendar-status-point-border-color  | border color of status point                                                                  |
| --jb-calendar-month-bgcolor-hover        | background color of month in month list in hover state                                        |
| --jb-calendar-year-bgcolor-hover         | background color of year in month list in hover state                                         |
| --jb-calendar-arrow-fill-color           | next and prev arrow icon color                                                                |
| --jb-calendar-day-color-hover            | day color hover default color is `#312d2d`                                                    |
| --jb-calendar-month-color-hover          | day color hover default color is `#312d2d`                                                    |
| --jb-calendar-year-color-hover           | day color hover default color is `#312d2d`                                                    |
